Add YAML doc (#4874)
OttoWinter/esphomedocs: guides/yaml.rst

Anchors, Aliases, and Overriding Values
---------------------------------------

YAML anchors (`&anchor`) and aliases (`*alias`) allow you to define a block of configuration once and reuse it elsewhere. This is especially useful for repeating metadata fields.
You can also override specific values when merging with `<<: *anchor`:

.. code-block:: yaml

    sensor:
      - &common_adc
          pin: GPIO32
          platform: adc
          name: "Temperature 1"
          device_class: temperature
          unit_of_measurement: "°C"
          accuracy_decimals: 1
          state_class: measurement

      - <<: *common_adc
        pin: GPIO33
        name: "Temperature 2"

In this example, both sensors share the metadata from `common_adc`, but the second sensor overrides the `pin` and `name` values.

ESPHome YAML Extensions
-----------------------

ESPHome adds several powerful features to standard YAML:

Secrets and the secrets.yaml File

> ---------------------------------

Reviewer: I think the headings below here (except for "See Also") should be sub-headings since they're ESPHome-specific extensions.

```suggestion
Secrets and the secrets.yaml File
*********************************
```

- Values are referenced using ``$variable_name`` or ``${variable_name}`` syntax
- The ``${variable_name}`` syntax is required when embedding within other text
- Substitutions are processed before any other part of the configuration
- Substitutions values must be strings. Numbers and booleans are not supported, but in most cases a number represented as a string will be automatically converted when substituted.

!include
********

- Insert the contents of another YAML file at this position.
- Useful for splitting configurations into reusable parts.
- Substitutions can be used in the included file to reference values passed to ``!include``. Such values will override any global substitutions, so global substitutions can be used to provide default values.

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    binary_sensor:
      - platform: gpio
        id: button1
        pin: GPIOXX
        on_multi_click: !include { file: on-multi-click.yaml, vars: { id: 1 } } # inline syntax
      - platform: gpio
        id: button2
        pin: GPIOXX
        on_multi_click: !include
          # multi-line syntax
          file: on-multi-click.yaml
          vars:
            id: 2

Packages
********

> The ``packages`` feature allows you to define reusable and potentially partial configurations that can be included in your main configuration. Including a package file will merge its contents with your main configuration in a non-destructive way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``packages:`` feature allows you to define reusable and potentially partial configurations that can be included in your main configuration. Including a package file will merge its contents with your main configuration in a non-destructive way.
```

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # main file contents

    packages:
      wifi: !include common/wifi.yaml
      living_room: !include common/packages/living_room.yaml

    wifi:
      ssid: "MyActualWiFi" # overrides the value in common/wifi.yaml

    # The contents of common/wifi.yaml

    wifi:
      ssid: "MyWiFi"
      password: !secret wifi_password

Note that the key in a packages line is just a placeholder - it must be unique within the `packages` mapping, and should ideally be chosen to indicate its purpose, but otherwise can be anything you like that is a valid key.

> Variable can be provided for substitutions when including a package file, just as for regular includes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variables can be provided for substitutions when including a package file, just as for regular includes.
```

> The `packages:` key can only appear at the root level of the YAML file, i.e. it must start in column 1. Its location within the file is however not important. Files included under a `packages:` key will be inserted at the root level of the file, so the contents of the file should look like fragments of a standard configuration. This is in contrast to regular includes, which are inserted at the same level as the `!include` key.

Reviewer: I've been avoiding use of "e.g.", "i.e." and the like as it may be confusing for/unfamiliar to non-native English speakers. The HA folks don't use these and I think we should follow that lead.

```suggestion
The `packages:` key can only appear at the root level of the YAML file; in other words, it must start in column 1. Its location within the file is however not important. Files included under a `packages:` key will be inserted at the root level of the file, so the contents of the file should look like fragments of a standard configuration. This is in contrast to regular includes, which are inserted at the same level as the `!include` key.
```

> The `packages:` key can only appear at the root level of the YAML file, in other words it must start in column 1. Its location within the file is however not important. Files included under a `packages:` key will be inserted at the root level of the file, so the contents of the file should look like fragments of a standard configuration. This is in contrast to regular includes, which are inserted at the same level as the `!include` key.

Reviewer 2: I suggest to be make this paragraph more general because this is also true for the `substitutions` as well.

Author: This is explaining the difference between using `!include` in two different contexts. `!include` is not relevant to the `substitutions:` section.

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # JSON style
    data_pins: [48, 47, 39, 40]

    # YAML style
    data_pins:
      - 48
      - 47
      - 39
      - 40

    sensors:
    # A list of sensors, each is a mapping
      - platform: gpio
        name: "Temperature 1"
        pin: GPIO32

      - platform: gpio
        name: "Temperature 2"
        pin: GPIO33

Sequences in YAML format can be quite confusing at times - consider the following examples:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - platform: gpio
      name: "Temperature 1"

    - label:
        text: "Temperature 1"

It may seem odd that in the first case there is no additional indentation, while in the second case there is. The difference is that in the first case the sequence item is itself a mapping, with keys ``platform`` and ``name``, while in the second case the sequence item is a key ``label`` with a value of a mapping with key ``text`` and value ``"Temperature 1"``. Rewriting these in JSON format can make it clearer:

> .. code-block:: json
> 
>     - {
>         "platform": "gpio",
>         "name": "Temperature 1"
>       }
>     - {
>         "label": {
>           "text": "Temperature 1"
>         }
>       }

Reviewer 3: Either make it fully valid json
```suggestion
.. code-block:: json

    [
      {
        "platform": "gpio",
        "name": "Temperature 1"
      },
      {
        "label": {
          "text": "Temperature 1"
        }
      }
    ]
```

Or leave the block language as yaml...
```suggestion
.. code-block:: yaml

    - {
        "platform": "gpio",
        "name": "Temperature 1"
      }
    - {
        "label": {
          "text": "Temperature 1"
        }
      }
```

.. _yaml-include:

!include
^^^^^^^^

- Insert the contents of another YAML file at this position.
- May be used at any level of the configuration, and will be substituted at that level.
- Unless used in conjunction with ``packages:`` (see below) the insertion is done literally.
- Substitutions can be used in the included file to reference values passed to ``!include``. Such values will override any global substitutions, so global substitutions can be used to provide default values.

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    binary_sensor:
      - platform: gpio
        id: button1
        pin: GPIOXX
        on_multi_click: !include { file: on-multi-click.yaml, vars: { id: 1 } } # inline syntax
      - platform: gpio
        id: button2
        pin: GPIOXX
        on_multi_click: !include
          # multi-line syntax
          file: on-multi-click.yaml
          vars:
            id: 2

Packages
^^^^^^^^

The ``packages:`` feature allows you to define reusable and potentially partial configurations that can be included in your main configuration.
The data is merged with the main configuration, with values in the main configuration taking precedence over values in the package data.

> See :doc:`/components/packages` for more details.

Author: Your suggestion to remove the leading slash from doc references is wrong - those are needed in this context since the source document is not at the root of the tree, so an absolute path to the referenced document is required.

.. _yaml-hidden-items:

Hidden items
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Any top-level configuration key that starts with a dot (``.``) will be ignored, and will not be included in the final configuration.
This is mostly useful to define anchors that are not part of the configuration.

.. code-block:: yaml

    .number: &AnchorNumber # Define an anchor, but exclude it
        optimistic: true
        min_value: 0
        max_value: 600
        step: 1
        initial_value: 0

    number:
      - platform: template
        <<: *AnchorNumber # Include the anchor previously defined
        id: "SwitchMainDelay"
        name: "Main Switch Delay"

The hidden key name is not important, and indeed can be just a single dot, but using a more descriptive name is recommended.

Lambdas

> ^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 3: RST allows for having equal or more underline character count than the heading itself, but does not allow less than the test.

(Trying to teach coderabbitai here)

> ^^^^^^^^^

Author: Also note that where `doc` references are used, the leading slash is often required since the source document may not be at the top of the tree.
